e
don't
spe
[Music]
the
9,584 meeting of the Security Council is
called to order
the provisional agenda for this meeting
is the situation in the Middle East
including the Palestinian
question the agenda is
adopted in accordance with with rule 37
of the council's provisional rules of
procedure I invite the representative of
Israel to participate in this meeting it
is so
decided the security Council will now
begin its consideration of item two of
the
agenda members of the council have
before them document
s224
239 the text of the draft resolution
submitted by the United States of
America the council is ready to proceed
to the vote on the draft resolution
before
it
I now give the floor to those members of
the council who wish to make statements
before the
vote I give the floor to the
representative of the United
States thank you Mr
President colleagues for all the stories
that have been written about divisions
in this Council and there are many real
divisions I believe most of us share
many of the same
goals first and foremost we want to see
an immediate and sustained
ceasefire as part of a deal that leads
to the release of all hostages being
held by Hamas and other groups and that
will allow much more life-saving
humanitarian Aid to get into
Gaza of course we can't just want that
to happen we have to make that happen we
have to do the hard work of
diplomacy I know you've heard me say
that a lot and that's because it's the
truth a security Council resolution
means much less if it is not actually
made real on the
ground that's why the United States
Egypt and Qatar are working around the
clock in the region to secure an
immediate and sustained ceasefire as
part of a deal that leads to the release
of all hostages being held by Hamas and
other groups that will help us address
the dire humanitarian crisis in
Gaza we believe we're close we're not
there yet
unfortunately and this moment is one
where the security Council has a
critical role to
play by adopting the resolution before
us we can put pressure on Hamas to
accept the deal on the table colleagues
you don't need me to tell you that every
day without a deal meaning every day
without a ceasefire leads to more
needless suffering for more than 100
hostages including a one-year-old child
being held in cap captivity by Hamas and
other groups for innocent Palestinians
in Gaza who have been displaced who are
starving who desperately need peace for
Israelis whove continued to face missile
attacks from Hamas a terrorist group
that set this conflict into motion on
October 7th every day without a deal
means more needless suffering this
resolution will move us closer to
securing that deal and help us alleviate
that suffering and I urge all council
members to vote Yes to vote for a
resolution that at long last condemn SAS
for horrific terrorist attacks and
sexual violence that makes clear that
all civilians Palestinians and Israelis
should be able to live without fear of
violence that demands the protection of
civilians in Gaza and stresses that a
major ground offensive in Rafa poses a
grave threat to civilians even as we
still work toward eliminating Hamas from
all parts of Gaza that calls on Israel
to eliminate all barriers and
restrictions to humanitarian Aid
especially as the threat of famine looms
large in Northern Gaza that condemns
calls to resettle Gaza and makes clear
that the Palestinian Authority should
have ultimate authority over Gaza and
that reiterates this council's support
for a two-state
solution this is a strong resolution
it's the byproduct of the exhaustive
inclusive negotiations it reflects the
consensus of this Council and it does
more than just call for a ceasefire it
helps to make that make a ceasefire
possible it would be a historic mistake
for the council to not adopt this text
and I again urge all council members to
vote yes thank you Mr
President I thank the representative of
the United States for their statement I
give the floor to the representative of
Russian
Federation Mr
President the United Nations security
Council has
for half a year six months been unable
to adopt a document with a demand for a
ceasefire in Gaza all of the attempts
time and again came up against the
resistance of the United States who four
times in Cold Blood cast a veto in this
chamber in this time we have heard from
us colleagues repeatedly their
justifications either they were saying
that the achievement of a fire is
premature in so far as there is a need
to give space for so-call
counterterrorism efforts of Israel or
they demanded for the security Council
not to stand in the way of effective
diplomacy of Washington on the ground
that is a
quote or they called for us to wait for
the onset of Ramadan when apparently an
agreement would definitely be reached
for a cease for an end to the violence
and now six months have eled Gaza has
virtually been wiped from the earth and
now the US Representative without
blinking has been asserting that
Washington has finally begun to
recognize the need for a
ceasefire
sluggish thought process in Washington
has cost the lives has been come at the
cost of the lives of 32,000 peaceful
Palestinians two3 of whom are women and
children and even now we have observed a
typical hypocritical spectacle when
wrapped up in a ceasefire the United
States have been trying to sell a
product to the membership of Security
Council and to the entire International
Community they've been trying to sell
something completely different namely a
d
formulation about a about a definition
and determination of the imperative for
this kind philosophical passages about
moral
imperatives are seen in limited
quantities in the work of Emanuel
Kant however to save the lives of
peaceful CI Palestinian civilians this
is not enough and this is in no way what
is stipulated in the Mandate of the UN
Security Council Council which is vested
with a unique mechanism to demand a
ceasefire and were necessary to compel
compliance
therewith US Secretary of State Antony
blinkin during an official interview in
jida on the 2th of March with the
correspondent Al stated and I quote well
in fact we in fact we actually have a
resolution that we put forward right now
that's before the UN Security Council
call for an immediate ceas tied to the
release of hostages and we hope very
much that countries will support that
end
quote however in the text of the US
draft which has been put to the vote
today there is no such quote so what
turns out is that either the US
representative of the United Nations or
the US Secretary of State have been
deliberately misleading the
International Community distinguished
colleagues from the very onset it was
clear that the So-Cal negotiations which
our us colleagues have been engaged in
on this issue have been focused gear
merely to drag out the
time all of our comments all of our red
lines were time in time disregarded as
were the proposals of a number of other
delegations this was some kind of an
empty rhetorical exercise rather than
normal work on docum
the American product is exceedingly
politicized the sole purpose of which is
to help to uh play into play to the
voters to throw them a bone in the form
of some kind of a menion of a ceasefire
in
Gaza and to establish the US's political
Ambitions in the region through the
establishment of terrorist labels and
to ensure the impunity of Israel whose
crimes in the draft are
not I wish to draw attention to the
following the US tra contains an
effective green light for Israel to
mount a military operation in
Rafa at the very least the authors try
to make it to such that nothing would
prevent Western Jerusalem from
continuing their brutal cleansing of the
south of the Gaza Strip and what is
Washington actually trying to achieve we
have already stated that we will no
longer tolerate pointless resolutions
which do not contain a call for a
ceasefire which lead us to
Nowhere this draft should
not with the majority of the membership
to send a message about
the
admissibility not the paliative but the
actual intentions of Washington it would
be very strange for us to see that those
members of the Council of whom there are
a majority who understand this and who
persuaded us of the deficiencies in the
US draft it would be we be surprised if
they now lift their hands voting in
favor of
it ladies and
gentlemen do this you will cover
yourselves in
disgrace consider once again how will
you look before the population in the
Middle East in front of your own
populations if you support this
hypocritical initiative which is
designed to disorient the International
Community and essentially to undermine
the authority of the council uh making
sure that it cannot have an impact on
the situation on the ground that this
Council will not be able to have an
impact of the situation on the ground to
ensure that it not get in the way of the
White House are you willing to play into
their hands when it comes to this
unsavory spectacle the Russian
Federation will not do this as a
permanent member of the UN secur Council
as one of the founders of the United
Nations we recognize the historical
Global responsibility we shoulder for
the maintenance of International Peace
and security we cannot allow the
security Council to become an inst
instrument in the advancement of
Washington's destructive policy in the
Middle East if this resolution is to be
adopted this would definitively close
the door when it comes to discussions
about the need for a ceas fire in
Gaza this would free the hands of Israel
and it would result in all of Gaza and
its entire population having to face
destruction Devastation or expulsion we
are not Guided by what is convenient for
Washington and sadle satellites The
Satellites who rais their hands
following instructions from Washington
we do not follow this what we what
guides us is what is necessary for the
Palestinian people and what helps to
advance
peace call upon the membership of the
security Council not to allow this to
occur to vote against the US
draft Mr President for the United
Nations security Council to ultimately
be in a position to deliver upon its
mandate for the Mand maintenance of
International Peace and security a
number of non-permanent members of
Security Council have drafted an
alternative draft resolution which
stipulates black on white the demand for
both a ceasefire and the unconditional
release of hostages this is a balanced
and a a political
document we see no reason for which the
membership of the security Council for
the members of the security Council not
to support this unless a ceasefire and
the release of hostages is not part of
their
plans this is an attempt to allow the
council to comply with the noble
functions that have been vested in it
and I call for you not to let this
opportunity slip away thank you for your
attention I thank the representative of
Russian Federation for their
statement
I shall put the draft I shall put the
draft resolution to the vote
now will those
in will those in favor of the draft
resolution contained in document
s224
239 please raise their
hand
those again those
against
abstention the result of the Voting is
as follows 11 votes in favor three votes
against one
abstention the draft resolution has not
been adopted owning to the negative vote
of a permanent member of the
council I now I now give the floor to
those members of the council who wish to
make statements after the vote I give
the floor to the representative of the
United States
thank you again Mr
President colleagues today the the
United States put forward a resolution
in good faith after Consulting with all
council members and after multiple
rounds of
edits the vast majority of this Council
voted in favor of this
resolution but unfortunately Russia and
China decided to exercise its
veto and now Russia and China will give
you all sorts of explanations for his
obstruction but whether or not it will
admit it there are two deeply deeply
cynical reasons behind its votes
first Russian China still could not
bring itself to condemn hamas's
terrorist attacks on October 7th can we
just pause on that for a
moment Russia and China refuses to
condemn Hamas
for burning people alive for gunning
down innocent civilians at a concert for
raping women and girls for taking
hundreds of people hostage this was the
deadliest single attack on Jews since
the
Holocaust and a permanent member of this
Council can't even condemn it I'm sorry
it's it's really outrageous and it's
below the Dignity of this
body the second reason behind this veto
is not just cynical it's also Petty
Russia and China simply did not want to
vote for a resolution that was pinned by
the United States because it would
rather see us fail than to see this
Council succeed even after inclusive
consultations over weeks and weeks even
after negotiations and edits produced a
draft that received overwhelming Council
support and as you saw today nearly
every council member voted to put the
full weight of this body
behind the Diplomatic efforts to secure
an immediate and sustain ceasefire as
part of a deal that leads to the release
of all hostages that will allow much
more humanitarian Aid to get into
Gaza but once again Russia put politics
over prog o over progress
Russia who has carried out an unprovoked
war on his
neighbor has the audacity and the
hypocrisy to throw stones when it lives
in a glass house itself so let's be
honest for all the fiery rhetoric we all
know that Russia and China are not doing
anything diplomatically to advance a
lasting peace or to meaningfully
contribute to the humanitarian response
effort colleagues there is obviously
another resolution that some of you
would like to be considered but in its
current form that text fails to support
sensitive diplomacy in the region worse
it is it could actually give Hamas an
excuse to walk away from the deal on the
table all of us want to see this Council
speak out but we should not move forward
with any resolution that jeopardizes the
ongoing negotiations and these are not
just negotiations that are being carried
out by the United States others in the
region Qatar and Egypt are engaged on
these negotiations so if that
alternative resolution comes up for a
vote and does not support the diplomacy
happening on the ground we may once
again find this Council deadlocked I
truly hope that that does not come about
and so for our part the the United
States will keep at it we'll continue to
work toward a deal alongside Qatar and
Egypt and we will work with any council
member that is seriously interested in
adopting a resolution that will help
make that deal possible thank you Mr
President I thank the representative of
the United States for their statement I
give the floor to the representative of
United
Kingdom thank you
president the United Kingdom voted yes
on the text before us this
morning we voted yes on the need for an
immediate and sustained ceasefire to
protect civilians allow humanitarian Aid
in and alleviate
suffering we voted yes on the call for
an international humanitarian law to be
upheld for the release of
hostages to reject forced
displacement and to urge a
a ground offensive
interfa
president Palestinians are facing a
devastating and growing humanitarian
crisis which will not improve until more
Aid can get in to
Gaza so we are deeply disappointed that
Russia and China were unable to support
this Council to clearly and
unequivocally State the need for an
immediate and sustained ceasefire to
that
end through this
resolution the security Council would
have rightly and for the first time
unequivocally condemned Hass terrorist
attacks we're disappointed that the
council was not able to send this
important
message due to the vetos cast by Russia
and
China we welcome the patient and
constructive consultation by the United
States on this
text for our part we will continue to do
everything we can to get Aid into Gaza
as quickly as possible by land sea and
air but an immediate stop in the
fighting is the only way to get a into
Gaza that is so desperately needed and
make progress towards a permanent
sustainable ceasefire I thank
you I thank the representative of the
United Kingdom for their statement I
give the I give the floor to the
representative of
Algeria thank you Mr
[Music]
President
I address to you
today not only as representative of
Algeria but
also as
representative of the all Arab
world
witnessing the in folding tragedy in
Palestine our
region is devastated by the violence
inflicted upon the Palestinian
people live
scenes of Destruction and killing
inflicting profound
suffering are not bearable anymore
since the beginning of the aggression
against the Palestinian
people the Arab group have
consistently called to put an end to
disc
carage
only by seizing hostilities we can
alleviate the immense suffering and
ensure that
large scale humanitarian assistance
reaches those in
Need for this
purpose we presented last
month a draft resolution who
garnered significant support within the
security Council but it
was
ultimately VTO
it we firmly believe
that its
adoption could have saved thousand of
Life of innocent
people it is beyond any doubt that
resolution
2712 and
2720 have Fall Fallen short due to the
absence of a
clear
demand for a
ceasefire those who
believe that the Israeli occupying
power will choose to
uphold this its
International legal
obligation are
mistaken they must abandon
this fiction Mr
President since the circulation of this
draft resolution over a month
ago
Algeria has
participated actively and in good faith
in the negotiation
process proposing reasonable
idit to achieve a more balanced and
acceptable
text we acknowledge the effort made by
the the US
delegation especially Ambassador
Greenfield in accommodating some of our
proposals
however our core
concerns remained and
addressed despite the many circulated
revised
versions throughout this
process we emphasized
relentlessly the urgency of an immediate
ceasefire to prevent further loss of
life we echoed the demand of millions of
people and humanitarian actors for an
immediate cessation of
hostilities
regrettably the draft
resolution falls short of our
expectations it fails to adequately
address these main
issues and the immense suffering
enduring by the Palestinian people
over five
months the conflict in
Gaza has resulted
in the tragic loss of life of more than
32,000 Palestinian lives
32,000 Palestinian
lives more than 74 injuries C
74,000
injuries with
12,000 suffering permanent
disabilities These Are Not Mere
statistics they represent lives they
represent
dreams they represent hopes who have
been
destroyed alarmingly
the text avoid
mentioning the
responsibility of the
Israeli occupying
power these individuals were not lost
due to act of self
harm they were
killed their
perpetrators must be held
accountable for
us in the Arab
world in the Islamic
nation in the whole
world Palestinians
lives
undeniably
matter Mr
President the text presented
today does not convey a clear message of
Peace it tedly allows for
continuing civili civilian
casualties and lack clear Safeguard to
prevent further
escalation it is a
Le to continuing killing the
Palestinian
civilian the emphasis on measures I
quote on
measures
to reduce civilian
harm from
ongoing and future
operation and future
operation implies a license for
continuing
Bloodshed in this context we are
particularly concerned about a potential
military operation in
Rafa such a military operation would
have
devastating
consequences
Algeria along with other Regional
countries has actively
pursued
reconciliation
between Palestinian
faction because we trust that United
Palestine is essential for its fut
future and the future of the peace
process we believe that specific
provision within the draft resolution
geop pariz the future of the Palestinian
State and hinder ongoing
reconciliation
efforts
building a Palestinian
State
requires the collective effort of all
its
citizens all its
citizens and the SEC Security Council
actions should
support not
impede this process Mr
president
Ena Ena plays a vital role in assisting
Palestinian refugees not only in
Palestine but also in Jordan in Lebanon
in
Syria it is a tool of regional
stability any
resolution and undermining UNAM
mandates would
exacerbate the already dear humanitarian
situation and Rua continuing
operation is essential until Palestinian
refugees are able to sustain themselves
or to return
home as
stipulated by international
law Mr
President while supporting parallel
efforts to end the
Bloodshed this should not prevent the
council from demanding a ceasefire a
clear ceasefire to alleviate the
Palestinian
suffering the security Council
duty
is by the
charter to maintain International Peace
and
security it should be
empowered to impose to impose a
ceasefire for all this
reason Algeria
voted against this draft resolution Mr
President we urge all security M council
members to prioritize the immediate
cessation of
hostilities the security Council must
take decisive and meaningful action to
help to all the violence and pave the
way for a sustainable peace
process in
Palestine and also in the wider
region it is
still within our capacity to
act and urgently urgently I thank
you I thank the representative of
Algeria for their statement
I give the floor to the representative
of
France Mr
President thanks the United States for
having proposed this
resolution and we voted in favor
of this Council must continue to
act while the catastrophic humanitarian
situation in Gaza is
worsening imate and unconditional
release of all
hostes it also calls for an immediate
and Lasting
ceas we therefore support the efforts of
several elected members of this
Council a draft resolution along those
lines and welcome the
fact that resolution unreservedly
supports ongoing efforts
in unreserved
supports
call International
La this is an absolute
requir is opposed to any Israeli
offensive in Raa that can only lead to a
humanitarian
disaster there is also an urgent need
for a massive delivery of humanitarian
to must be
open direct land link from Jordan and
all Crossing points in line with our
principles France will
continue call this Council to condemn
the terrorist acts committed by Hamas
and other terrorist groups on the 7th of
October last o the vast majority of us
had supported the Brazilian draft which
clearly outlined these
acts
Comm is
and solidarity with the israelian people
Israeli people following these
attacks these attacks canot justify the
unjustifiable suffering of the
Palestinians in Gaza France remains
committed to a political settlement to
the Israeli Palestinian conflict and we
recall that only a two-state
solution will ensure the security of
Israel as well as the legiate
aspirations of the Palestinian people
for a state it is the of this Council
toall this and that is why France will
should
responsibilities and propose an
initiative to the security Council thank
you I thank the representative of France
for their statement I give the floor to
the rep representative of Republic of
Korea thank you Mr President the
Republic of Korea voted in favor of the
draft resolution proposed by the us as
this includes positive elements that can
plant the Seas for more sustainable
peace in Palestine and Israel including
support for the ongoing negotiations to
achieve the release of hostages and an
immediate ceasefire the Republic of
Korea reaffirms its firm position
calling for an immediate humanitarian
ceasefire objecting to any ground
operation in Rafa and stressing the
importance of the protection of
civilians
thus we note with the appreciation that
the draft resolution made it clear that
in immediate and sustained ceasefire is
imperative to protect civilians and
alleviating humanit alleviate
humanitarian suffering and we complement
the efforts by the US government to
incorporate comments from the council
members this draft resolution proposed
by the US contains other important
elements including support for
diplomatic efforts to ensure ceasefire
and release of all remaining hostages
clear condemnation of all acts of
terrorism including the deplorable Hamas
Le attacks of the 7th of October and
concern over the ground offensive into
Rafa it also demands all parties to
enable the full immediate safe sustained
and unhindered delivery of humanitarian
assistance to the civilian population
throughout Gaza in addition it includes
rejections of forc displacement the
establishment of so-called buffer zones
and new settlements in
Gaza as well as a commitment to the
two-state
solution thus it is regrettable that
another opportunity for this Council to
forge a favorable response has failed to
draw consensus the Republic of Korea
will continue to constructively engage
with other members of this Council to
reach a meaningful outcome in responding
to the Grave situation in Gaza I thank
you I thank the representative of
Republic of Korea for their
statement I give the floor to the
representative of
China Mr
President China voted against the draft
resolution that has just been put to the
vote and I would like to explain China's
vote and relevant considerations as
follows more than 160 days have passed
since the outbreak of the Gaza conflict
in the face of a human tragedy in which
more than
32,000 innocent civilians have lost
their lives and millions are suffering
from famine the most urgent action to be
taken by the council is to promote an
immediate unconditional unsustained
ceasefire this is the universal call of
the International
Community the decision taken by the
emergency special session of the general
assembly a few months ago and a solemn
appeal by the Secretary General of the
UN to the council while invoking article
99 of the
charter the council has tracked its feet
and wasted too much time in this
regard
we all recall that the US introduced its
own draft resolution after
vetoing on February the
20th overwhelming consensus among
council
members on an
immediate over the past month the draft
has undergone several iterations and
contains elements that respond to the
concerns of the International
Community it has always evaded and
dodged the most Central issue that of a
ceasefire the final text remains
ambiguous and does not call for an
immediate
ceasefire nor does it even provide an
answer to the question of realizing a
ceas fire in the short term this is a
clear deviation from the consensus of of
the council members and fell far short
of the expectations of the International
Community an immediate ceasefire is a
fundamental prerequisite for saving
lives expanding humanitarian access and
preventing greater
conflicts the US draft on the contrary
sets up preconditions for a ceasefire
which is no different from giving a
green light to continued killings which
is unacceptable
the draft is also very unbalanced in
many other
aspects in particular with regard to
Israel's recent and repeated
Declarations of plans for a military
offensive on Rafa the draft does not
clearly under
equivocally State its opposition which
would send an utterly wrong signal under
lead to severe
consequences any action taken by the
security Council should stand the test
of History under
of morality and
conscience with a view to
safeguarding truth and
Justice safeguarding the
charter purposes and principles and
safeguarding the Dignity of the
council and also based on the
concerns and strong opposition from the
Arab state
with this draft resolution China
together with Algeria and Russia have
voted against the draft resolution Mr
President members of the council have
now before them another draft resolution
that was the result of collective
consultations among elective members of
the council this draft is clear on the
issue of a
fire and is in line with the correct
direction of the council's action is of
great
relevance China supports this
draft we hope that the members of the
council will reach agreement on this
basis as soon as possible and send a
clear signal calling for an immediate
ceasefire and on the end of the
fightings like other members China has
from the outs called for the immediate
release of all
hostages a demand repeatedly reiterated
in the security Council resolutions 2712
and
2720 we welcome the mediation efforts by
Egypt and others to this
end and we hope
that will be released at an early
date China rejects the accusations by
the US and the
UK against China's voting position they
if the US were serious about
ceasefire it wouldn't have vetoed time
again multiple Council
resolutions it wouldn't have taken such
a detour and played game of
words while being ambiguous and evasive
on critical
issues if the US is serious about
ceasefire then please vote in favor of
the other draft resolution clearly
calling for a
ceasefire so that a ceasefire can be
finally and immediately achieved the
Palestinians their sufferings can be
alleviated and ended and hostages be
released without
delay at an early date for the us at the
current stage what is most important is
not words but their deeds their
actions no matter what China will
continue to work with council members
and the International Community to play
a responsible and constructive role in
order to achieve SE fire and put an end
to the war Implement a two State
solution alleviate the suffering of the
catastrophe and promote a comprehensive
just and Lasting solution to the
question of Palestine thank you Mr
President I thank the representative of
China for their statement I give the
floor to the representative of Mala
thank you president Malta thanks the
United States for for their efforts and
consistent engagement on this draft
resolution Malta voted in favor of the
text and we regret that the use of the
veto has prevented its adoption we
believe that this draft would have
represented another important step in
the right direction and would have
continued to build upon resolutions 2712
and
2720 Malta remains firm in its position
that an immediate and permanent ceased
fire is the only a venue through which
we can prevent a further
deterioration and begin addressing the
impact of the Israeli Hamas War we
support and appreciate ongoing efforts
by Egypt Qatar and the United States to
negotiate a deal which allows for the
release of
hostages we will continue to reiterate
our call on Hamas to release all
hostages safely and
unconditionally we welcome that the
draft condemned the heus Hamas Terror
attacks of 7th October including the
taking of hostages and sexual violence
committed we recognize that this text
emphasized concerns on a ground
offensive interfa and the catastrophic
consequences this will cause for 1.5
million the majority of whom are women
and children however we underline that
the council cannot be perceived to
authorize
and any ongoing or future Israeli
military operations into Raa in any way
we stress our firm rejection of any
ground offensive andaa and believe the
draft should have had stronger and more
reassuring language on this matter we
also underline the fact that a forc
displacement of the Palestinian civilian
population from and within Gaza would
amount to grave breaches of
international law Malta continues to be
Gravely alarmed at the ever increasing
humanitarian toll of this war which also
persists during this holy month of
Ramadan we firmly reiterate our call for
Israel to ensure the immediate safe
sustained and unhindered delivery of
adequate and desperately needed Aid to
the people in
Gaza we must do our utmost to alleviate
the suffering of the civilians in Gaza
we also o repeat our call for the full
implementation of resolutions 2712 and
2720 Malta remains deeply concerned
about the ongoing situation in the
region we reiterate that an immediate
and permanent ceasefire remains a
priority to deescalate this Gravely
concerning spiral of violence and
Regional escalation in closing president
molta reaffirms its steadfast commitment
to achieving comprehensive peace in the
Middle East this Demands a two-state
solution where Israel and Palestine as
two Democratic states peacefully coexist
side by side within secure and
recognized borders in line with the
relevant Security Council resolutions
and internationally agreed parameters
thank you I thank the representative of
Marta for their statement I give the
floor to the representative of
Guyana thank you m Mr
President after 5 months of war in Gaza
and the horrific attacks of 7th October
2023 this Council has still not been
able to adopt a text that addresses all
the dimensions of the conflict in a
manner that impacts the situation on the
ground and upholds the rule of
law while Guyana welcomed the US
initiative to develop a draft resolution
and the transparency with which the
negotiations were conducted we are of
the view that given the length of time
spent on those negotiations and certain
positions consistently expressed by
several delegations the draft could have
better reflected the broad-based
feedback Mr President dear colleagues
Guyana abstained on this draft
resolution for a number of reasons which
I will
elaborate first contrary to some media
and other reports this resolution does
not call for an immediate
ceasefire instead we note that it and I
quote determines the imperative for a
ceasefire end of quote and calls for
support for diplomatic efforts that are
ongoing outside of the UN while those
efforts must be commended given the
responsibility and Mandate of this
Council Guyana could not support a
resolution that does not unequivocally
call for an immediate ceasefire nearly
32,000 persons have been killed in Gaza
since 7th October the majority of whom
are women and children more than
74,000 have been maimed initial un
assessments have concluded that it would
take years to clear 23 million tons of
rubble and unexploded weapons scattered
across Gaza the latest IPC report
projects famine between now and may 2024
in summary this man-made disaster cannot
be halted without an immediate ceas fire
and it is this council's responsibility
to unequivocally demand one even as it
acknowledged the efforts of Qatar Egypt
and the United States second the demand
for a ceasefire should not be linked to
or conditioned on the release of
hostages The Taking of hostages is
strictly prohibited under international
law and their release must be
unconditional Guyana reiterates his call
for the immediate and unconditional
release of all hostages two wrongs
cannot make a right and the Palestinians
people should not be collectively
punished and themselves held hostage for
the crime of others third in our view
this text lacked attribution in a number
of key areas while the D includes the
condemnation of Hamas for the October
7th attacks and demands they immediately
Grant humanitarian access to the
hostages and rightfully so there is no
attribution or demands to the Israeli
authorities for what is taking place in
Gaza for example who is responsible for
1.5 Palestinians taking refuge in Rafa
and who has announced a plant military
ground offensive there to whom is the
demand and for compliance with
obligations on the international law
regarding the protection of civilians
and civilian objects humanitarian access
and the protection of humanitarian
relief and medical personnel their
assets and infrastructure applicable who
has erected and maintained the existing
barriers to the provision of
humanitarian assistance at scale who is
responsible for the forcible
displacement of the civilian population
in gasa who is preventing the use of all
available routes to and throughout the
entire Gaza Strip who does not respect
the confliction and notification
mechanisms we know the answers to these
questions we have heard briefer after
briefer both from the UN system and
Civil Society describe the situation on
the ground explaining where the problems
are and who is responsible for creating
these problems why then were the
relevant demands in the resolution not
clearly addressed to the occupying power
not even once was this done indeed if
one were to read this resolution without
background knowledge it would be
difficult to ascertain which party in
this conflict is committing the
atrocities in Gaza atrocities which
necessitated this draft resolution being
put forward in a resolution of 41
paragraphs
236 words words the occupying power is
mentioned once in the penultimate
paragraph fourth preambular paragraph 7
was of particular concern to Guyana this
council is the organ with the charter
responsibility for addressing threats to
peace breaches of the peace and acts of
aggression how can we endorse the idea
of and I quote ongoing and future
operations end of quote in Gaza as long
as measures are taken to and I quote
again reduce significantly civilian harm
end of quote this idea was rejected by
several delegations during the course of
the negotiations in guyana's view this
is in direct contravention of the
council's responsibility it would set a
dangerous precedent and make the council
complicit in the atrocities being
committed in Gaza now and in the future
Fifth and final we took note of the four
paragraphs treating with the Mandate of
the senior humanitarian and restruction
coordinator for Gaza while we applaud
the coordinator's efforts we are off the
view that the scale of efforts that
would be required in Gaza after the war
would warrant a key role for onra given
its Decades of experience in the strip
and its capacity Vis AES other agencies
operating there this Council has heard
many times of the indispensability of un
ra it is the lifeline for Palestinians
we were therefore disappointed that the
only mention of onra in the draft
pertained to the investigations into the
allegations against a small number of
its staff Guyana supported by several
delegations had requested an affirmation
of On's important mandate in the text
but this was not taken on board Mr
President dear colleagues this Council
still has an opportunity to take action
to end the suffering of all parties
civilians in Gaza need a respite
Palestinians need a respite Israelis NE
a respite both NE a respite from this
continuous cycle of violence and pain
that is the real window of opportunity
the strong desire by the people of
Palestine and Israel for peace Guyana is
prepared to work with other council
members to respond to their needs and
legitimate aspirations including very
important the two-state solution this
must not be postponed I thank you I
thank the representative of Guyana for
their statement I give the floor to the
representative of
Slovenia thank you very much Mr
President a month after our last vote I
will repeat my words we voted for the
resolution because the killing and
starving of civilians in Gaza must stop
and the suffering of hostages and their
families must end we voted in favor of
the resolution because we believe it is
imperative for the security Council to
send a clear message that the situation
in Gaza is
unacceptable we deeply regret the use of
the veto by the Russian Federation and
China we thank the United States for
their efforts on this draft resolution
the draft offered the Council an
opportunity to follow up on several
harrowing briefings that we have
received in the last
month the resolution didn't include all
of the elements that we would have
wanted to see in the text
however it provided us an opportunity to
express ourselves on a number of
particularly concerning aspects of the
crisis in Gaza and they
include the importance of achieving an
immediate and sustained ceasefire the
need to release hostages a clear stance
against an offensive in Rafa and its
serious implications for regional peace
and security the urgency of removing
roadblocks to humanitarian assistance
including the need for increased
provision and distribution of
humanitarian Aid the need for respect of
international law on protection of
civilians and civilian objects the need
for protection of humanitarian relief
and medical personnel the rejection of
an attempt at territorial or demographic
change of Gaza including Force
displacement and the commitment of the
council to the vision of the two-state
solution many of these elements have
been extensively elaborated during our
numerous meetings and briefings on Gaza
as emphasized on those occasions we
believe in the complementarity of all
efforts bilateral Regional and those of
the council we therefore once again
thank the leaders of Egypt Qatar and the
United States for their efforts in
securing a deal on the ground Slovenia
is of the view that a strong signal of
support from the council to the
negotiations on the ground could provide
an important impetus to the process and
bring us closer to Lasting
peace we continue condemning the
terrorist attack of Hamas on 7th of
October and call for the immediate and
unconditional release of hostages Hamas
did set this in motion but it didn't
have to end with over 32,000 killed
Palestinians the rest of them starving
and the massive violations of
international humanitarian law war with
all its tragic consequences is a choice
not
necessity we underscore the need for
accountability and adheres to
international law and we would like to
once again express our deep concern over
the statements of Israeli officials
regarding resettlement of the people of
Gaza and reject a possible ground
invasion in
Rafa we regret the council was once
again unable to send a clear signal on
the need for this conflict to end in
order to then continue its work on the
political solution and the vision of the
two-state solution we reiterate our call
for full respect of international law
including International humanitarian law
and human rights law of the provisional
measures of the international court of
justice and resolutions 2712 and
2720 the council needs to demonstrate
leadership in Pursuit Of Peace Slovenia
will continue its engagement with all
council members to find a United voice
from the council for Slovenian
Palestinian lives matter for us Israeli
lives matter this conflict must end
thank you I thank the representative of
Slovenia for their statement I give the
floor to the representative of
Switzerland
mer thank you
United
States was not
ad of two permanent members of the
security Council ofation the horrific
unbearable suffering on the ground it
would have been necessary for the
council to achieve a tangible result and
to send a signal of an ability to act in
clear Unity for the protection of
civilians of the members of the ex
Council contributed to the numerous
consultations on the text put to the
vote today and I thank the United States
for their effort right up until the last
minute however AR content to be clearly
to clearly reflect the request made
repeatedly by a very large majority of
council members for an immediate
humanitarian ceasefire to be established
without any conditions it is high time
for anival request for an immediate
human ceas to be subject of consensus at
this Security Council in of the
catastrophic humanitarian situation in
which civilians find themselves in Gaza
first and foremost children hundreds of
thousands of displaced persons who are
enduring bombardment the risk of famine
and epidemics in light of that such a
ceas fire remains a priority Ur
necessity now Del assist the entire
population Gaza now needs to take place
in a
exped we note that the US text does
notely call for the immediate and
unconditional release of hostages a
demand that a large majority of the
council members including Switzerland
has have consistently made since the act
of ter by Hamas on October Switzerland
welcomes the
condemnation remains very much concerned
about consequences of the current
hostilities a major military offensive
in Rafa would significantly wor the
already catastrophic light of the
civilian population and would generate
new major obstacles to the delivery of
humanitarian assistance this is a
prospect that is unacceptable and it
cannot be endorsed by this counil
furthermore today's failure under no
circumstances should be interpreted as a
message for the parties to continue
hosties for this reason Switzerland
remains committed including with the
elected members of the security Council
to facil Rapid action by the council we
encourage and facil all of the
negotiations initiatives carried out by
the US Egypt and it also remains our to
that these obligations under
interational La in particular
international law and human rights for
these obligations to be respected by all
parties under all circumstances even in
the absence of resolutions from the
council this is necessary to protect and
assist civilian populations swiland
remains committed to UniFi action aimed
at bringing to end and we are committed
to reestablish a political Horizon in
accordance with our mandate for the
maintenance of International Peace and
security thank you I thank the
representative of Switzerland for their
statement I give the floor to the
representative of Sierra
Leon
Mr President today the security Council
has considered the draft resolution
presented by the United States as part
of the council's effort to fulfill its
responsibility under the charter of the
United Nations to maintain International
Peace and security we acknowledge the
time and effort dedicated by United
States to ensure we have a resolution
that will address the current situation
of the ground as it relates to the
ongoing hostilities in the Gaza Street
since the attack of 7th October
2023 despite the serious difficulties we
had with some provisions of the text
Stan voted in favor of the draft
resolution to demonstrate commitment to
achieving a sustainable sensation of
hostilities even if incremental in
approach and dependent on diplomatic
negotiations outside of the United
Nations the text placed before the
council by the pen holder did not call
for an unambiguous immediate ceasefire
and an unconditional release of the
hostages with unfolding catastrophe
tragic and massive scale of killings and
human suffering in Gaza seron has
committed to support initiatives that
will lead to a
ceasefire our vote therefore was
informed by the need to support actions
that could lead to an immediate and
sustained ceasefire alleviate human
suffering Stop Force displacement of
Palestinians and allow for the delivery
of essential humanitarian assistance
including medical supplies water food
beddings and shelter our vote is also
indicative of the urgent need for all
hostages held by hammers to be
immediately released with our vote we
underscore the urgent need for an
expanded and unimpeded humanitarian
assistance to civilians in entire Gaza
Strip especially at this itical moments
of acute food insecurity in the Gaza
strep and the imminent risk of famine as
a f proponent for consistency in
complying with international law Ser
welcomes the call for parties to the
conflict to comply with the obligations
under international law including
International humanitarian law with
regard to the conduct of hostilities and
protection of civilians and civilian
objects while we regret that the current
text was not adopted due to the
Incorporation of elements that could be
misinterpreted and which lacks the
council's consensus this setback not
withstanding as a council we must
continue our Pursuit Of Peace our quest
for a solution to the ongoing
catastrophic humanitarian situation is
to rescue the 177,000 onomy children in
the Gaza street over 1.4 million
internal internally displaced persons
the wounded women and other vulnerable
groups from untimely deaths and Untold
suffering seron will continue to
recognize the key role of omra and all
un humanitarian agencies in providing
life saving assistance to the civilian
population and offer our support to the
senior humanitarian and reconstruction
coordinator for Gaza when the guns are
silent and we at the critical point it's
our firm view that the people of
Palestine should be given the Liberty to
determine their political status and
future we emphasize that all engagements
regarding reconstruction of the Gaza
striet must be conducted in good faith
and with active participation of the
Palestinians I thank
you I thank the representative of sier
Leon for their statement I give the
floor to the representative of
e thank you Mr
President resoltion which we have just
considered we share the need for urgency
the counil to act catastropic humanarian
situation
ofine being forced to go
elsewhere vot in favor of a resolution
which is the fruit of a lengthy
negotiation process in which all members
of the council
participated it
is
resoltion which the council determines
that immediate ceasefires required but
it also contains other elements of
considerable importance relev including
medium and longterm
measures on the P to Lasting peace text
also includes explicit condemnation for
the Hamas terrorist attacks and The
Taking of hostages Equador reates the
demand these hostages be released
immediately
unconditionally Mr
President that each of us each member of
this text could be improved upon but I'm
also fully convinced that we would never
agree on which part needs to be improved
upon or how to do it in such a complex
sit situation a perfect text for
everyone is impossible Mr
President must not be Hostage to rival
we should be a space for building
reconciliation in
peace framewor of a clearcut mandate
received
in the UN
Char and so once again we regret that
the majority decision of the council has
not been respected due to the use of the
veto thank you I thank the
representative of Ecuador for their
statement I shall make a statement in my
capacity as a representative of
Japan over five months have passed since
hamas's horrifying acts of Terror took
place in Israel which has led to the
unfolding of the tragedies the world has
been witnessing in
Gaza at least
32,000 Palestinians have been reported
toly killed by Israel in Gaza most of
them women and
children farming is on on the brink and
the looming Israeli military offensive
into Rafa only threatens to deepen the
humanitarian
catastrophe this should not proceed
under any
circumstances given the gravity of the
situation on the ground Japan voted in
favor of this draft
resolution we deeply regret that it
failed to be
adopted Japan appreciate the tireless
efforts of the United States in
Consulting with all council members
throughout the negotiation
process had it been adopted this
resolution could have pushed forward
forward ongoing vigorous diplomatic
efforts in particular the four part the
four party Pro talks towards an
immediate and sustained cease fire and
the release of
hostages we believe that this would be a
pragmatic approach to improve the
humanitarian situation on the ground
although we were unable to adopt the
resolution the council must put pressure
on the parties to conclude the deal as
soon as possible those in Gaza and
Beyond cannot wait another day I thank
you I resume my function as present of
council the permanent representative of
Russian Federation has asked for the
floor to make a further statement I give
them a
floor
Mr
President the we have now just
heard we have heard
hypocritical statements from a number of
members of the security Council from
some members of the security Council who
have been shedding crocodile tears about
the Russian and Chinese
vetos we explained the reasons behind
our not allowing the resolution to pass
and it by no means is because of the US
what been portrayed by the US delegation
not what the US Representative tried to
persuade us about I told all of you that
you would be covering yourselves with
disgrace voting for the US text which
for
you including those who are vaunting it
was
unacceptable do you want me to tell you
how things actually were it's not
difficult to see it's not at all
complicated your
us Lords and protectors Beyond ringing
the hands of your leaders in capital
they told you that you should not be
worried because the Russian Federation
would beo this in any way but you would
not go against the US text that is
that's the whole scenario so don't try
to hypocritically tell us that you are
now disappointed that Russia and China
veto the resolution once again today you
have covered yourselves with disgrace
voting for a text which you yourselves
do not support and did not
support I I thank the representative of
Russian Federation for their statement I
now give the floor to the representative
of
Israel thank you Mr President
Mr President I would like to begin by
expressing my gratitude to the United
States of America the United Nations was
established in the wake of the Holocaust
to prevent such atrocities from
happening again Ambassador Thomas
Greenfield thank you for defending these
values your determination to condemn the
Hamas monsters and your conviction that
the release of the hostages is not
something that can be postponed shows
true moral
Clarity the American resolution should
it have passed would have marked a
moment of morality for the UN a place
where good is evil and Justice is
Injustice it would have been the very
first time that this Council or any un
body condemned Hamas and their brutal
Massacre yet sadly for purely political
reasons this resolution did not pass and
terrorists can continue benefiting from
this Council whitewashing their
crimes colleagues how can we explain to
children around the world that the body
mandated to uphold Global Peace and
security refuses to condemn terrorists
for the most horrific
crimes the council's decision to not
condemn Hamas is a stain that will never
be
forgotten colleagues as Israel defends
its very future against those that seek
our annihilation
all un bodies have dedicated their
discussions only to the situation in
Gaza and the civilian
casualties numbers supplied by the
terrorists are thrown around and quoted
as if they are word of God yet in
essence these numbers are merely the
lies of Hamas that the UN is so quick to
Parrot the time has come to put an end
to this myth Kamas knows that they
cannot defeat Israel militarily their
goal is to annihilate Israel and their
strategy is to terrorize our civilians
while weaponizing the International
Community to tie our hands in order to
ensure their
survival and how do they do it they use
Gins as human shields in an effort to
maximize civilian casualties knowing
that it will lead this Council to
pressure Israel into ending the military
operation remember please remember
remember for Israel every civilian death
is a tragedy for Hamas civilian deaths
are a
strategy and sadly you are playing into
hamas's strategy exactly as they
predicted Israel is a law-abiding
democracy we take every effort to
minimize collateral damage Israel has
gone above and beyond to ensure the
safety of civilians we drop warning lifl
lets make tens of thousands of phone
calls and provide Gins with military
Maps detailing safe corridors Israel has
taken steps that no other military in
any other conflict any other conflict
has ever taken all in order to mitigate
civilian casualties Hamas on the other
hand built for years hundreds of miles
of Terror tunnels in which terrorists
hide and our hostages are held why do
they do it Hamas does exact this in
order to exploit gods and civilians as
human Shields and to increase the death
toll for Hamas more murdered civilian
civilians is key to their
survival it's their path towards a
ceasefire that will keep them in
power so ask yourself if you're not
helping them with their strategy so
Kamas through the Gaza Ministry of
Health that it controls provides false
statistics Statics which are then
parroted around the globe promoting the
lies of
terrorists by merely looking only
looking at the Kamas numbers it is
crystal clear that they cannot represent
reality a statistic Professor from
Warton business school recently released
an an analysis of the Kamas uh sorry
Gaza Ministry of Health numbers Pro
proving that not only are they distorted
but they are also inflated they have no
possible basis in
reality but even if we were we were to
take hamas's falsified numbers at face
value the non-combatant to combatant
ratio in Gaza is roughly one to one this
is the lowest ratio in the history of
urban
Warfare every civilian death in Gaza as
I said is tragic but the only party to
blame is Hamas yet the security Council
refused to hold Hamas accountable for
deliberately putting Gins in the line of
fire condemn the tunnel under schools
condemn the exploitation of hospitals
for Terror hold Hamas
accountable the same can be said about
The lious Narrative of famine in Gaza
this too is Hamas propaganda which the
UN has chosen to embrace there is
absolutely no limit No Limit that Israel
places on humanitarian Aid entering Gaza
and to date
3,041 tons of Aid on over 18, 283 trucks
have entered the strep any country that
wishes to provide more Aid is more than
welcome and we will facilitate its entry
the only reason why any gin lacks Aid is
because Hamas loots it and steals much
of it for themselves
as long as Hamas is in control gaza's
economic situation will be in
ruin colleagues this Council has
expressed its concern over an operation
in Rafa but let me be clear there is no
country no country that seeks to avoid
an operation in Rafa more than Israel is
it your sons and daughters that you are
sending into battle no it is our
children who are making the ultimate
sacrifice in defense of their
Homeland from the outset of the war
Israel's goal have been clear return the
hostages dismantle hamas's ter
capabilities and ensure that Gaza no
longer poses a threat to
Israel so far Israel has succeeded in
dismantling roughly 18 of kamasa
battalions but there are four remaining
battalions in Rafa with around 8,000
terrorists Israel is fighting for her
future and if we fail to achieve our
goals Kamas will repeat October 7th
again and again as they promised
publicly not only Hamas by the way
Terror will prevail in our region and
this will inspire jihadist organizations
all across the globe so the only way the
only way to achieve a real and permanent
ceasefire is to eliminate hamas's
capabilities entirely and this cannot
happen unless all of their battalions
are
demolished you cannot extinguish a fire
by putting out most of it the fire will
grow again and spread this is what will
happen without an operation in Rafa
Israel sees no alternative the road to a
permanent ceasefire passes through
Rafa if this Council has any other ideas
how to dismantle the terror group
without entering GA Rafa we would like
to hear them we are
open colleagues once Kamas capabilities
are dismantled Israel's goal to
demilitarizing Gaza can materialize but
for a lasting solution between Israel
and Gaza there is another requirement
deradicalization according to a recent
poll by the Palestinian Center for
policy and Survey the Palestinian Center
research 71% I repeat 71% of
Palestinians support hamas's October 7th
Massacre it's not only a minister saying
this or that as you quote here 71% of
the Palestinian people support the
massacre and over 60% of Palestinians
want to see Hamas in control of the Gaza
strep can you comprehend this the vest
majority of Palestinians support hamas's
Massacre and wish to keep these rapist m
murderers in power this colleagues is
the root of the problem whoever ignores
this deep-seated hatred and makes
demands of Israel only Israel by the way
is bearing their head in the sand like
an ostrich just as the UN has done since
Israel disengaged withdrew from Gaza in
2005 for 18 years the UN has turned a
blind eye to hamas's bigotry incitement
and radical indoctrination to ter
that is rampant in schools across Gaza
by the way including in unrest schools
we hear calls for two states for peace
yet the UN refuses to address the
underlying issue the vast majority of
Palestinians are not looking for peace
what is most important to them is
Israel's Annihilation at any cost this
is why deradicalization is Key by making
one-sided demands of Israel without
without making any demands of the
Palestinian Palestinians to end their
culture of hate and incitement a
long-term solution will never be
possible demand that the Palestinian
Authority combat Terror demand that they
end incitement demand that they stop
paying salaries to terrorists demand
that they deradicalize the
people the educational transformation
that the German people underwent after
the Third Reich was toppled is what the
Palestinians need to receive so that
they finally support coexistence
coexistence with Jews coexistence with
Israel that's how we educate our kids Mr
President the war may be in Gaza but
this war extends much much further than
our battle against Kamas the true Puppet
Master directing Kamas kisala the htis
all of them to attack us and their their
militias is as you all well know is Iran
Iran is the architect of instability and
its ambitious of world domination Must
Be Stopped the Ayatollah regime is
determined to wipe Israel off the map
and they are not ashamed to say it
publicly tomorrow dear colleagues the
Jewish people will celebrate the holiday
of Purim and this holiday is a very
important message to the murderous
Ayatollah regime and the rest of the
world 1500 years ago in Persia which is
modern day Iran the king signed a
disastrous decree a resolution calling
to annihilate all the Jews in his
Empire following this catastrophic
decision the Jewish people banded
together and through conviction and
Faith they succeeded in reversing this
resolution gaining the right of
self-defense as a result the Jewish
people defeated all those who set out to
murder them them and the man behind this
evil plot was
executed this is the story of Purim our
holiday and the holiday slogan is V and
the opposite happened those who plotted
against the Jewish people had their own
schemes turned against them this is the
essence of Jewish history the very same
faith and conviction that the Jews of
Persia displayed has been carried with
us to this day
this is why we have survived and thrived
despite all of the decrees and racist
resolutions against us throughout
history many have tried to destroy us
but all have failed because we will
never surrender and we will always fight
for our existence members of this
Council called for a ceasefire in honor
of the Muslim holiday of Ramadan we
respect Ramadan but hamas's Massacre was
carried out on the Jewish holiday of sim
T the holiday where we Mark the
completion of the reading of the Old
Testament the Tor so today in order of
puim the request of the Jewish people is
that this Council takes real real and
active measures to release all of our
hostages and if we are successful if the
hostages return home and Kamas is
dismantled then just as it says in the
meila the text that we read on Purim
like
the Jewish people had light and joy
gladness happiness and honor for us and
all Humanity thank you Mr
President I thank the representative of
Israel for their statement there are no
more names inscribed on the list of
speakers the meeting is
ajen
e
h